OK so now we're going to talk about component's life cycles whenever re-act starts the application and
it starts building and the component or it's going to update or receive data or receive props or whatever.
Reac re-act does everything insteps.
So it's going to just follow a pattern.
First is going to one is going to get the default state.
So we're going to get the fault state first is going to do that is the first step then the second one
is going to set initial state.
Then the third task is going to be before the component gets created.
So it's going to be before it gets created then it's going to render the IJA sex.
So we can say render Jair Sex and the last thing it's going to do is to call to a method that is going
to be just put for right here.
OK.
And the fifth position is going to be after a component it's mounted or created.
So I'm going to say after a component is mounted right.
So don't worry I can explain you right now with a practical example.
So OK so first react is going to start to hold cation and have made a new entry.
It's going to be call lifecycle.
I've added it right here in the routes.
So I ams inside lifecycle is give me an.
Because this is not a valid component of course.
So first I'm going to say import import re-act from react so we can use GSX begin to bring the component
is going to be a class.
And of course we know this and then it's going to be import from and then just react after a while.
This is kind of a natural.
So OK we're going to start our class and this class is going to be called lifecycle.
It's going to be class.
And then just life cycle and going to make everything just in lowercase.
And this going to extends.
And then just a component just like always.
OK so now the first thing that is going to happen I'm just going to cut copy right here.
The first thing that it's going to happen is going to get to default state.
So whenever it gets the default state is going to do it from the constructor it's going to get the prompts.
It's going to go to the probs and get a default state.
If we have one of course and let me just make sure right here I'm going to say export default and lifecycle
OK.
So whenever we get the full state which is the first thing that it's going to do it's pretty much what
we've been doing right now on the Prue's lectures.
It's just grabbing the constructor bringing the prompts and then just calling the super That's it.
This is the first step that re-act is going to do and it's just a lifecycle then it's going to set an
initial state.
And of course if you have a state it's going to set the initial state.
We're going to do that does that state and it calls to something again it put some dummy data can say
tidal.
Pulp fiction fiction in Cinemax whatever.
I'm just going to put something else.
It's going to be the tie that the body of news and it's just some some dummy text.
Right.
Let's get.
That's fine.
So this is going to be the second the second rule that's going to set the initial state and this one
it's interesting before it gets created now before it's rendering everything.
And before it's showing something on the screen is going to do something else.
So this is going to be called component will mountains and this is something that you're going to hear
a lot.
It's going to be component and then just will everything is in camel case and mount and this is going
to be a fancy function just a just like render.
So inside the compound will mounth is going to do something before everything it's rendered is going
to trigger dysfunction.
And if we put some code right here this code will be executed before rendering anything in on the screen.
So I'm going to say I'm just going to do a console log and the console log is going to bits and just
some dummy text is going to be before before component's gets created just like that.
All right.
So the four position the fourth step is going to be rendering the GSX.
And we've been doing this already.
We already did this is going to be render and inside the render just open and close and then we just
return some GSX.
OK.
So I hear I'm just going to return something that we have on in the state just some dummy text.
It's going to be d of.
And then H-1 that's going to make it smaller 8 4 and it's going to be a con..
I'm sorry we're going to show the title.
So it's going to.
Does that state the title.
OK.
So then we're going to show the body we're going to do a break and then just show the body.
So it's dev.
And this idea of again just does that state DOT body.
OK that's fine.
So it's going to work if the application is going to give me the title and some dummy text.
Let's get let them just remove the break.
OK.
So this is the fourth step the fourth lifecycle is going to be the render then just like before it gets
created we have after a component it's mounted or it's created.
And this one is instead of component will mount its component did mounted.
So the names kind of make sense now component will mount and mount.
So it's going to be again everything in Coulon case is component's dead mount and it's just a function
just like the other one and this one I'm going to say just console comes along and becomes a lock.
It's going to be I don't know whatever we can to put after a component it's mounted of course after
our component is mounted right so the page reloads it's outputting the text and it's right here it's
going to say before component gets created.
It's going to output it before the component did mount again.
So the class starts the Capones starts is going to do the constructor then set the initial state then
trigger that component will mount.
It's going to come to this function then it's going to render and then component did mount after everything
is created.
That's why we it's we that's why we are getting the consul log after the before.
So if I just caught this and paste it before the decomposed will mount it is still showing the before
and then the after.
So this is not changeable this is always after the render.
And this is always before the render.
So I'll go back just give you a practical example.
Let's say that we want to change the color of the 8:4.
So if I go to the compound will mount going to go right here.
I'm going to say document just select that from the dorm directly.
We shouldn't do this but whatever course selector and then begin to select that age for tag.
OK.
Beginning to enter the style of style that color and equals and something that we can notice it's going
to be red.
So the application is going to reload and it's going to give us an error message it's going to say cannot
read properly.
Style of no.
So we are trying to access an element that it's not on the dorm.
And this is because we are calling it before the component gets created.
So whenever we call this this information doesn't exist yet and this is just one of the beauties of
every act we can call and do things before everything is rendered and after everything is rendered and
ready on screen we can call this and use this.
So if I do it at the end I'm going to do it on the component that mount is going to work for sure.
I read the page is changing the title The color because this exists on time.
OK that's fine.
Let's go to the next lecture and talk about a little bit more about life cycles.